Adds CL with Windows OS in renewed multi-boot tutorial. (#820)
clearlinux/clear-linux-documentation: source/tutorials/multi-boot/dual-boot-win.rst

.. _dual-boot-win:

Dual-boot |CL-ATTR| and Windows\* 10 OS
########################################

This guide shows how to install |CL-ATTR| adjacent to an existing Windows\*

> 10 :abbr:`OS (operating system)`. To add |CL| to an existing Windows installation, there are two possible methods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10 :abbr:`OS (operating system)`. There are two possible methods to accomplish this:
```

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 1

Description
***********

In this tutorial you'll install |CL| :ref:`bare-metal-install-desktop` as
an additional partition. Optionally, you may follow
:ref:`bare-metal-install-server`.

Method 1: Shrink Windows partition and install |CL|
***************************************************

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this method, we will shrink the Windows partition to make space for |CL|.  
```

   Some BIOSes do not support listing multiple partitions. In this case,
   it will only show one bootable partition.

   .. tip::

      If you don't want to use the BIOS boot menu each time to select an OS,
      follow :ref:`Advanced: Use systemd-boot to boot Windows 10 OS and |CL| <advanced-systemd-boot>`.

Method 2: Add another hard disk to your system where you install |CL|
*********************************************************************

#. Shutdown your system.

#. Open your system and attach another hard drive.

#. Power up your system.

#. Follow the instructions in :ref:`bare-metal-install-desktop`, and launch
   the |CL| installer.

#. In the :guilabel:`Required options` tab, choose :guilabel:`Select
   Installation Media`.

#. Within that menu, select :guilabel:`Destructive Installation`, and
   select the new hard drive from the device list.

   .. note::

      Make sure you don’t select the drive with your Windows 10 OS.

#. Go through remaining steps to complete the installation.

#. Reboot.

#. During the BIOS POST stage, press :kbd:`F10`, or the proper F-key for your
   system, to launch the :guilabel:`Boot Menu`.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. figure:: ../../_figures/multi-boot/multi-boot-win-03.png
      :width: 45%
      :alt: Boot menu

      Figure 4: Boot menu
```

Reviewer: @mvincerx - what do you think about replicating Figure 3 here for Method 2?

Author: Sure. User confirmation with screenshots is always good. Upcoming.

   * /dev/sda5 is the EFI system partition created by Clear Linux
   * /dev/sda7 is the Clear Linux root partition

#. Create mount points.

   .. code-block:: bash

      sudo mkdir /mnt/windows-efi

      sudo mkdir /mnt/clearlinux

#. Mount the EFI system partition for Windows 10 OS.

   .. code-block:: bash

      sudo mount /dev/sda2 /mnt/windows-efi

#. Mount the |CL| root partition and its EFI system partition.

   .. code-block:: bash

      sudo mount /dev/sda7 /mnt/clearlinux

      sudo mount /dev/sda5 /mnt/clearlinux/boot

#. Copy Windows 10 OS bootloader, and other data needed to boot it, to the
   |CL| EFI system partition.

   .. code-block:: bash

      sudo cp -r /mnt/windows-efi/EFI/Microsoft/ /mnt/clearlinux/boot/EFI/

#. Make :command:`systemd-boot` the default bootloader and add Windows 10
   OS Boot Manager.

   .. code-block:: bash

      sudo bootctl install --esp-path=/mnt/clearlinux/boot

#. Add a timeout value to the :command:`systemd-boot`. This allows enough
   time for you to select your preferred OS from the menu.

   .. code-block:: bash

      sudo clr-boot-manager set-timeout 20 --path=/mnt/clearlinux

>       sudo clr-boot-manager update

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      sudo clr-boot-manager update --path=/mnt/clearlinux
```

Author: Done

      :alt: Disk Management > Shrink Volume

      Figure 1: Disk Management > Shrink Volume.

#. Shrink the size of the partition by at least the following amount:

   * For :ref:`installing the live desktop <bare-metal-install-desktop>`,
     allow at least 21GB.

   * For :ref:`installing the live server <bare-metal-install-server>`,
     allow at least 4GB.

#. We shrink C by about 21 GB, as shown in Figure 2.

   .. figure:: ../../_figures/multi-boot/dual-boot-win-02.png
      :width: 80%
      :alt: Shrink C

      Figure 2: Shrink C.

#. Shutdown the Windows 10 OS.

#. Follow the instructions to :ref:`bare-metal-install-desktop`.

#. After booting from the |CL| image, select the icon to
   launch the installer.

#. Click :guilabel:`Select Installation Media`.

#. Select :guilabel:`Safe Installation`.

#. Go through the remaining steps to install |CL|.

#. Shut down your system and remove the USB.

#. Reboot.

#. During the BIOS POST stage, press :kbd:`F10`, or the proper F-key for your
   system, to launch the :guilabel:`Boot Menu`.

   .. figure:: ../../_figures/multi-boot/dual-boot-win-03.png
      :width: 80%
      :alt: Boot menu

      Figure 3: Boot menu

> #. In the :guilabel:`Boot Order` menu, use the arrow to select the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. In the :guilabel:`Boot Menu` menu, use the arrow to select the
```

Author: Done. Upcoming commit.
